week seven journal

>all DSLR images and digital scans are based on point measurements and no matter what resolution is adopted they are still only digital surface samples, and consequently always considerably less than the original subject under examination (Carter 2017). When such point readings are interpolated into meshes for 3D renders or 3D printing a significant proportion of these sampled data are discarded algorithmically. In other words more detail is being lost with each new recursive rendering, print or scan.

I've highlighted this quote from the Messy Assemblages essay because it makes a point which I meant to make in the week six journal but forgot about, and thats to do with data reuse. Everytime data is copied and transformed in some way it becomes increasingly further and further from the original fact. Bits are lost because they dont fit into the format of the data or they are added through inherent assumptions. This is certainly something to watch out for.

>A cyborg archaeology is a practice in worlding, in Heidegger's (2010) sense of being-in-the-world, but also as world-building in science fiction and video game creation. From this stance, creating archaeological interpretations is endlessly immersive, a process that I have compared to telepresence, ‘where you are when you are talking on the phone’ (Rucker et al., 1992). - Avatars, Monsters, and Machines: A Cyborg Archaeology, Colleen Morgan

>I am always amused when these same people challenge me with the question, “Can you validate your model?” The appropriate retort, of course, is, “Can you validate yours?” At least I can write mine down so that it can, in principle, be calibrated to data, if that is what you mean by “validate,” a term I assiduously avoid (good Popperian that I am). The choice, then, is not whether to build models; it’s whether to build explicit ones. - ODATE 4.4, Graham et al.

The readings this week have once again shifted my view of what digital archaeology is, or rather, what it can be. The whole prospect of cybord archaeology is quite interesting in that it seems to view itself not as a purely scientific practice, but also as a sort of artistic endeavour. I am still undecided about whether this is a true shift in focus - a shift from producing scientific knowledge to creating artistic knowledge - or whether it is more the result in a shift in perspective, i.e. a new awareness that this is what archaeology has been all along, an artistic practice. Messy Assembleges draws connections between archaeology and collage: both of these take objects out of their original contexts to present them under a new light, which nessesarily transforms either their form or meaning - for example, artifacts in a museum. And is it not the case that archaeology has always been a game of world-building? That is, an attempt at rebuilding the past through the scraps that we have dug up? Can it be both scientific and artistic? I am unsure.
